---
layout: git-post
date: 2017-02-23 16:12:51 +0100
title: "Have a nice Git configuration"
categories: git howto config
tags: config
level: basic
permalink: /git/basic/config
---

Here is a list of usefull commands to have a nice Git configuration. I'll explain them after:

{% include terminal.html cmds="cfg_1|cfg_2|cfg_3|cfg_4|cfg_5|cfg_6|cfg_7|cfg_8" %}

Now, some explainations:

- `user.name` and `user.mail`: you **MUST** set them. It will identify your commits.
- `color.ui`: Git will use colors (as often as possible) in its messages. They will be more readable.
- `status.showUntrackedFiles`: basically, `git status` will show untracked directories but won't show files in it. With this option, it will only show untracked files.
- `core.whitespace`: this option will force Git to ignore whitespaces related differences when using commands like `git diff`.
- `diff.mnemonicPrefix`: now, `git diff` will tell you between what the diff is done. Instead of `a` and `b`, it will say `c` for Commit, `i` for Index (staging area) and `w` for Working directory.
- `log.abbrevCommit`: limits hash display at 7 characters in `git log`, `git diff`, etc...
- `alias.hist`: create an alias for a pretty nice log with graph and usefull informations. To show it, use `git hist`.

> *Remember*  
> There is hundreds of configuration variables, I just speak about some usefull here. For more informations, see `git help config` or the `CONFIGURATION` section of `git help <cmd>` where &lt;cmd&gt; is the command you want to configure

As a gift, two better aliases for `log`:

{% include terminal.html cmds="cfg_9" %}

`hist` will show exact the same than the previous, but colored.