---
layout: git-post
date: 2017-02-26 15:37:25 +0100
title: "Git \"drafts\""
categories: git howto repository
tags: stash
level: advanced
permalink: /git/advanced/stash
---

Sometimes, you will have/want to switch branches but you have uncommited changes in your working directory. These changes are in an unstable state, so you can't commit them.  
Don't worry, git has a solution for you: `git stash`.

### Stashing you work

Let's show the working directory state:

{% include terminal.html cmds="status_7" %}

To be able to switch branches, your working directory must be clean. You don't want to commit these changes? Make a "draft commit" with `stash`:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_1|empty|status_3" %}

Now you can switch branches.  

The `stash save` command creates a "draft commit" and store it out of the history, in a stack.  
  
If the working directory looks like this:

{% include terminal.html cmds="status_2" %}

a simple `git stash save` will do:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_1|empty|status_14" %}

and you still can't switch branches. You must use the `-u` (aka `--include-untracked`) option:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_2|empty|status_3" %}

### List stashes

To see all stored stashes, use `stash list`:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_3" %}

In this example, there is two different stashes and it is possible to access both.

### Re-use stashes

There is two usable commands to get datas from stash and re-put it into your working directory: `stash apply` and `stash pop`.  
These two commands will apply the stash content to the working directory. Be aware the fact that applying a stash may result in conflicts you will have to handle manually. The main difference between these commands is what happend after: `apply` will do anything, `pop` will remove the stash from the stack (if no conflicts appeared).

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_4|stash_5" %}

By default, `apply` and `pop` will apply the last added stash. If you want to apply an other stash, run:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_6|stash_7" %}

where `x` is the number found in `list`.

### What's in a stash?

To show the changes recorded in the stash as a diff between the stashed state and its original parent, use the command:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_8|stash_9" %}

### Remove stash from stack

Once you don't need a stash anymore (or after handling conflicts resulting from a `pop`), you can remove it from the stack with

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_10|stash_11" %}

### Create a branch from stash

It is possible to start a branch from a stash, and easily. The command will do: creates a new branch from where you were when you add the stash, apply the stash and drop the it if it applies successfully:

{% include terminal.html cmds="stash_12" %}

### Other options

You can prevent staged changes to be added to stash with `git stash save --keep-index`.  
As for `git add`, you can use `git stash save -p` to chose which hunks to add to stash.
